# Arab Spring R Analysis

This repository contains scripts and data for analyzing public opinion data collected in the years following the Arab Spring (2012-2014). Examining this data sheds light on the Arab Spring's impact on public attitudes towards political systems in the Middle East. I completed this project for an assignment as part of an R coding course. 

## Contents

- `analysis_arab_spring.Rmd`: An R Markdown report documenting my analysis process and findings
- `data`: A folder storing the ABIII_English data file used in the analysis
- `analysis_arab_spring.md`: A Markdown file generated by knitting the script 
- `analysis_arab_spring_files` : A folder containing the results and graphs obtained from running the script

## Prerequisites

Before executing the scripts, make sure to install the following additional packages:
- `tidyverse`: Collection of R packages for data manipulation, visualization, and analysis
  - `dplyr`: Data manipulation 
  - `readr`: Read rectangular text data
  - `ggplot2`: Create high-quality visualizations based on the Grammar of Graphics.

## Reflections

As a Global Studies and Arabic Language student, this assignment gave me the opportunity to apply my R skills to social sciences questions that really interest me. Using Arab Barometer's Wave III dataset, I tidied it to account for variables I am interested in-countries, government satisfaction, and preference for democracy or authoritarianism. Creating different graphs, I discovered which countries had the most/least satisfaction with their governments, most/least preference for democracy or authoritarianism, and the correlation between government satisfaction and preference for democracy. I used skills we learned to import data, tidy data, graph data with ggplot, and use functions like for loop, summarize, and mean. 

I encountered many challenges in completing this assignment. One challenge was creating my own repository from scratch, and figuring out what to include in the README or script, and trying to format the script according to the online criteria. I referenced other repositories on GitHub as models to try to format my code as professionally and clearly as possible. Another challenge was tidying and manipulating my data. Especially since the dataset had confusing variable names and labels, it was important to rename them,filter out missing values, and reference the codebook to understand what the data meant. Lastly, I faced challenges applying the new R skills we recently learned since I haven't had very much opportunity to practice them. I found a great opportunity to use a for loop for my second graph-since the columns I was interested in both required the same manipulation, I used a for loop to perform it. I was very proud that it worked and excited that I put my skills from class into action. 

The HM3 assignment most helped prepare me for this project since I practiced creating percentages and visualizing data similarly. I was able to address any problems I had through online resources (especially the class slides and textbook). Thank you for reading! 
